KEP-1645: define dual stack policies and fields (#5264)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-multicluster/1645-multi-cluster-services-api/README.md

supported by MCS-API implementations. If supported, annotations or labels must
not be exported from the `metadata` of the `Service` or `ServiceExport` resources.

An implementation may use the `ipFamilies` field from the exported Services as

> a hint to influence the `IPs` and `ipFamilies` of the ServiceImport object,
> the exact mechanism for determining those field is still implementation defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a hint to influence the `IPs` and `ipFamilies` of the ServiceImport object.
The exact mechanism for determining those fields is implementation-defined.
```

Author: Thanks! I applied your suggestion

supported by MCS-API implementations. If supported, annotations or labels must
not be exported from the `metadata` of the `Service` or `ServiceExport` resources.

An implementation may use the `ipFamilies` field from the exported Services as
a hint to influence the `IPs` and `ipFamilies` of the ServiceImport object.
The exact mechanism for determining those fields is implementation-defined.

Also note that even in a dual stack cluster regular Services are by default SingleStack
which might default to IPv4 or IPv6 depending on your cluster configuration and there

> are various constraint when mutating `ipFamilies` and `ipFamilyPolicy` on a Service

Author: Thanks!

type ServiceImportSpec struct {
  // +listType=atomic
  Ports []ServicePort `json:"ports"`

>   // +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems:=2

Reviewer 2: Shouldn’t we have this on `IPFamilies` too?

Reviewer 3: Oops! Just read the diff wrong.

type ServiceImportSpec struct {
  // +listType=atomic
  Ports []ServicePort `json:"ports"`
  // +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems:=2
  // +optional
  IPs []string `json:"ips,omitempty"`
  // +optional
  IPFamilies []corev1.IPFamily `json:"ipFamilies,omitempty"`

>   // +optional

Reviewer 4: I was not following this conversation so apologies if this was already discussed, but this was very challenging to implement in Kube, cc @thockin as he did all the work, because `IPs` and `IPFamilies` are related, and the defaulting and validation or updates got very tricky

Reviewer 4: if the goal is to mirror the services fields why don't you add a reference? is to avoid the indirection layer?

spec:
  ips:
  - 42.42.42.42
  ipFamilies:

>     - IPv4

Reviewer 5: AFAIK, IPV4 and IPV6 format are quite different, are the formats in the "ips" field alone not enough for the consumer to discern? I assume that the consumer knows what IP family it can support.

Author: This field is more aimed toward the allocation of the `IPs` than what happens when/before  the `IPs` are actually allocated a bit like the current type field actually or even how the `ipFamilies` field behave on a regular Service. For Cilium we would most likely want to do an intersection of all the `ipFamilies` in the exported Services which would put this as relevant as the other fields essentially.

#### ClusterSetIP

A non-headless `ServiceImport` is expected to have associated IP addresses, the
clusterset IPs, which may be accessed from within an importing cluster. These IPs
may be used clusterset-wide or assigned on a per-cluster basis, but is expected
to be consistent for the life of a `ServiceImport` from the perspective of the
importing cluster. Requests to these IPs from within a cluster will route to

> backends for the aggregated Service. The `IPs` field must correspond to the
> protocol defined in the `ipFamilies` field if defined. How the `ipFamilies`
> field is set is implementation defined, for instance it might correspond to what
> IP protocol the local cluster support or globally reconciled like other
> ServiceImport fields.

Reviewer: Sorry, a couple minor adjustments that I missed before.

```suggestion
backends for the aggregated Service. The `IPs` field must correspond to the
protocols defined in the `ipFamilies` field, if specified. How the `ipFamilies`
field is determined is implementation-defined, for instance it might correspond to what
IP protocols the exporting clusters support or globally reconciled like other
ServiceImport fields.
```

Author: No worries, thanks again for the suggestion!

Author: My intent with referring to the local cluster is about some possible implementation that have some kind of gateway that didn't really need to care about IP protocol and the globally reconciled was actually the "globally reconciled part". So I ended up changing the last sentence vs what you were proposing but let me know if you have further suggestion/something better that I wrote after your comment.
